13 Years old Male presents to the emergency department with brought in by ambulance and accompanied by
police, after an altercation with his mother. He lost a phone charger and his mother became upset, and went after him with a bat,
and swung at him and hit him in the left elbow as he lifted his arm to protect himself. She didn’t hit him with the bat anywhere
else but had made some attempts. He admits left sided rib tenderness that he wasn’t aware of until now, but mild. No difficulty
breathing. No abdominal pain. He denies other ares of injury such as head, neck, back, or other extremity injuries. Police present
and CPS case opened. Father is not in the picture and there was report of a grandmother who might be available.
Past Medical History
Problems
Active
No Chronic Problems
No qualifying data available
Allergies: No Known Medication Allergies
Review of systems: As noted in HPI
Primary Care Physician if documented: Mekikyan, MD, Anna
Physical Exam:
Triage vitals: 12/16/23 21:55 T: 98.0 F HR: 110 BP: 122/76 SPO2: 99% O2 Delivery: Room air
General: Alert, no acute distress. Holding his left arm across his chest.
Skin: Warm, dry, pink, intact, mild redness of skin about left elbow.
Head: Normocephalic, atraumatic. No hematoma. No mastoid tenderness.
Neck: Supple, no swelling. Non-tender.
Eye: Normal conjunctiva.
Ears, nose, mouth and throat: No facial abnormalities. Moist mucus membranes. No facial tenderness or swelling, small
bruise to forehead, non-tender. No septal hematoma. No perioribtal or mastoid ecchymoses. Oral cavity nomral.
Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm, No murmur, Normal peripheral perfusion. 2+ distal pulses of extremities, including
2+ radial pulse of left arm, with good cap refill.
Respiratory: Lungs are clear, respirations are non-labored.
Gastrointestinal: Soft, Nontender, Non distended,
Musculoskeletal: No obvious deformities or swelling. Mild left lateral chest wall tenderness, no crepitans.
Neurological: Alert and oriented, No focal deficit observed. Moves all fingers normally on left hand. Neuro intact.
Psychiatric: Cooperative, appropriate for context. Calm, cooperative. Articulate and in good spirits.
ED Course:
Medical Decision Making: Patient seen and evaluated, given the presentation: multiple injuries including fractures,
dislocations, contusions, sprains, strains, and other occult injuries.
After initial evaluation and considering this differential diagnosis further workup was warranted and pursued as noted below.
Additional management consisted of the following:
Treatment:
acetaminophen, 600 mg, 18.74 mL, ORAL, ONCE
Diagnostics:
Labs All 24H Results Not Found in Electronic Medical Record
Imaging:
X-ray left elbow: left supracondylar fracture, with intrarticular extension.
Chest x-ray: no acute findings
Comorbidities affecting health:
Problems
Active
No Chronic Problems
External chart review: Records from previous hospitalization and procedures
Additional sources for history not mentioned above: EMS Police. Social work.
Management discussed with additional providers not already noted above: police
Discussion of radiology results with radiologist: no
Independent interpretation performed: diagnostics as noted above.
Social determinants of health: Lives with just his mother, no father in the picture, poor social support system.
Tests considered but not performed: labs, imaging such as CT scans.
Prescriptions considered but not given: none
Re-evaluation and Summary:
Escalation of care (observation/admission) considered: Admitted patient. The patient's condition required additional management
and care was escalated to admission.
He is resting comfortably neurovascular intact, has evidence of a supracondylar fracture with intra-articular extension,
required long-arm splint, post pin placement checked and good had good CMS. Discussed case with Children's Hospital to
arrange for transfer but she given the need for possible orthopedic intervention and the social situation with the child productive
services being involved. Police are aware and present with the patient.
Impression and Plan:
Impression:
Diagnoses This Visit
Arm injury - Minor (BEB111E5-07F6-4DC7-91BF-3EA1D801D5E8)
Closed head injury without LOC (8D476BB6-C0C4-400D-8902-A9A50BF7E405)
Supracondylar fracture of left humerus (S42.412A)
Condition: stable
Disposition: Transfer to Children's hospital